# Installing Raspbian
## Write img file to microSD card
In every kind of OS, we have convenient ways to write the system image file into our new microSD card.  
Before that, downloading the OS image is a must. [This is the official link of the newest Raspbian image.](https://downloads.raspberrypi.org/raspbian_latest)

### Windows
* Download Win32DiskImager.
* Run Win32DiskImager **as Administration**.
* Choose the img file and correct destination desk, click on `Write`.
* Wait for a couple of monutes, and it will be done.

### Linux
* Run `df -h` to see what devices are being mounted, and determine which is the microSD card we plugged in.
* Unmount all partitions on that microSD card with command `umount`.
* In Linux, the command `dd` is powerful enough. Run the command like this:  

		dd bs=4M if=2015-11-21-raspbian-jessie.img of=/dev/sdc
	* Remember to run this command with root authorization.
	* If you want to see the progress, run `pkill -USR1 -n -x dd` in another terminal.
* When dd finishes its work, check the result with command `diff` if necessary.
* Run `sync` to ensure the write cache is flushed.

### Mac OS
*I'm not familiar with Mac, so this part may be quite brief. I believe doing that in graphical interface is quite enough.*

* Make sure the microSD card is formatted as FAT32 in advance.
* Determine the proper device name in `Apple menu`->`About this Mac`->`More Info...`
* Once remembering the device name, unmount it.
* Run the similar `dd` command.

## First Setup on Raspberry Pi
### Power on
* Insert the processed microSD card into Raspberry Pi.
* The new Jessie version seems not to enable networking at first, so ,you'd better connect to your Raspberry Pi with **a serial port**.  
Many tools are available, such as Putty, CuteCOM and so on. If you are using Windows xp, the Super Terminal is still OK...
* Connect your Raspberry Pi with the baud rate of 115200, and connect the power.

#### Maybe what you need is a USB-TTL adapter?
Find it on taobao. Different products with different chips have various prices.  
I suggest that **PL2303** solution be the cheapest, maybe ￥5 around?

By the way, I'm not sure whether these USB-TTL adapters have suitable drivers on Linux or Mac OS. The former may be in a relatively good situation, ~~but the latter...~~

#### Driver issues on Windows 10 with fake PL2303
Some mimic PL2303 chips may receive an error of 10 in Device Manager. Don't worry, download an older driver for Windows Vista/7, and update its driver in Device Manager, choosing the old version manually.  
This procedure may beed to be done every time you plug the adapter into you computer.

### Make some configuration
Log in with the default username/password `pi`/`raspberry`.
#### Enlarge the disk size
When writing the OS image file, we just used maybe about 4GB of the storage space. Imgaes of new version have done this automatically when the image is powered up for the first time. If something unexpected happens, you may still need to do that manually. To make use of the remaining space, **choose `Expand Filesystem`** in the sub-menu after running the following command:

	sudo raspi-config

#### Make network work automatically
In Raspbian Jessie, the default configuration is that none of the network devices except `lo` will run automatically when the system starts up. This is absolutely what we don't want to see. To change this, we need to make some changes in `/etc/network/interfaces`:

* Run `sudo nano /etc/network/interfaces` to open that file with a text editor.  
If you want, use vi instead is OK.
* In campus network, we can't assign a static IP address for our Raspberry Pi. So, change `iface eth0 inet manual` to:

		iface eth0 inet dhcp
* Add the following text before the text above:

		auto eth0
* Try `sudo init 6`, after the Raspberry Pi restarts, run `ifconfig`, `eth0` will get an IP automatically now. For example, mine got an IP `172.17.248.142`, a very plain one.

##### DHCP client configurations
In Debian Stertch, `dhcpcd` is substituding for `dhclient`. However, in dual-stack network enviroments, behaviour of `dhcpcd` is too strange for us to use. (For example, your `eth0` get only IPv6 address via DHCP.) The easist way is to uninstall dhcpcd, and still use `isc-dhcp-client`. Run the following command:

	sudo apt-get purge dhcpcd

`raspberrypi-net-mods` will be uninstalled at the same time. Notice this is normal, and has nothing to do with the network fuction.

##### DNS configurations
Threotically, whether to set up DNS or not has no influence on the connectivity of the whole network. However, since this Rasperberry Pi is planned to burden more tasks, especially those related to domain names. This is why we must configure DNS.

DHCP should work and **only** work on `eth0`. Therefore, DHCP is configured in the NIC device `eth0` itself.

* Open `/etc/network/interfaces`;
* In sections of `eth0`, add these texts to the file:

		dns-nameservers 61.177.7.1
		dns-nameservers 221.228.255.1
		dns-nameservers 8.8.8.8
	If you want, add as many DNS servers as you wish. DNS requests will be started from the first to the last.
