#Extra configuration
##Change apt source
In mainland China, connecting to the default source is extremely awful... So, change to the source in China can save precious timefor us.

* Open `/etc/apt/sources.list` with a text editor.
* Imitate the source description that has existed in this file, create a new line, with URL switched to the domestic one.  
I think the USTC source, that is to say, **http://mirrors.ustc.edu.cn/raspbian/raspbian/**, is better for campus network users.
* Copy the new line, change `deb` to `deb-src` to enable `apt-get source`.
* Comment the original content with `#`.
* Save the file.
* Run the following command to update software package list:

		sudo apt-get update

##Lite your Raspbian
For a server, some packages are unnecessary. Just remove them.

* Directory `python_games`

		rm -hf python_games
* Sample codes

		sudo rm -rf opt

*If you want, remove desktop packages and something else is also OK.*

##Switch to SSH
Once the Raspberry Pi obtains its IP address, we can get rid of complex wires and  connect to it via SSH.  
*Also, with SSH, we can enjoy a colourful terminal~*

###Which IP is got?
Of course we can run `ifconfig` in Raspberry Pi to see via serial terminal. Also, scanning the whole subnet to see which is your Raspberry Pi is a better choice.

###Advanced IP Scanner
This is a free network scanning tool. Just download it, install it, and go ahead.  
[Download link](http://www.advanced-ip-scanner.com/cn/) is here.

###~~Primordial method~~
Remember ARP protocol? That is what we rely on now. This method can run on almost any OS.

* `ping` every IP address of the subnet IP address your Raspberry Pi locates in.
* Use `arp` command or something likewise to verify which IP corresponds to the MAC address of your Raspberry Pi.

##Install some packages

###chkconfig
`chkconfig` is a wonderful to help us configure all Linux services. Run the following command:

	sudo apt-get install chkconfigs